Aung La Nsang¡¯s training diary
Ahead of his homecoming MMA bout, the 'Burmese Python' takes time to tell Matt Roebuck about his preparations. This is the seventh installment in a series. 
Tickets are on sale, fight camp is ramping up in intensity, and my whole family has gone down sick with cold and flu, so time is of the essence now. 
Most days in training camp I¡¯m completing two sessions a day and after this morning¡¯s workout I made weight for my fight on March 18. It¡¯s great to know that my weight is good and that allows me to focus all the more on the fight. 

I¡¯m really pleased with all the attention the fight is getting. One of my hopes and ambitions when I first signed up to ONE Championship was to bring positive attention to my homeland. This week a crew from MMA Stories came to interview me about my return to Myanmar. 

Another sign that the countdown to fight night is shortening is the scheduling of all my medical appointments and pre-fight check-ups. Unfortunately, with the cold weather and flu season upon us, I have had to be super-careful to make sure I dress warm, get my vitamin C and take on enough fluids. 

Little Aung De hasn¡¯t been so lucky. Last week we had a potluck dinner at the gym for all our families ? I made my own secret recipe for cow tongue ? but when we got home the little one was running a fever and had an upset stomach. I could only hold him, tell him it is ok and that the pain will go away. 
Talking of pain, it¡¯s important that my training partners givep me a healthy dose of that if they ever think I¡¯m slacking, off my game or out of shape. The best training partners keep you honest, they don¡¯t hold back and if you¡¯re not 100 percent focused on your technique then they will hit you with shots that will hurt. We don¡¯t hold back as we train ? we go hard to simulate what we will experience in the ring. 

I love that kill-or-be-killed attitude from my teammates though it is probably why when we have guest training partners train with us they don¡¯t usually stay that long. 

Of course my focus is on putting on a great performance and to show you all in Thuwunna Stadium just what I¡¯m capable of. Everybody can set their own goals: Just this last week I was giving a judge advice on how to take down and choke her partner. It was all part of the Maryland Bar Association¡¯s visit to the Crazy 88 gym, and or them their aim is just a fun and healthier lifestyle. 

My fitness today is a lot less active. If you work out a lot, don¡¯t forget the importance of sleep. If you¡¯re trying to get in shape you also need your rest. For most people it¡¯s about seven to nine hours, though that does vary and for some i¡¯ts less. 