Babylon, the U.K. Digital Doctor App, scores $25M to develop AI-Driven health advice
Hot on the heels of PushDoctor¡¯s $8.2 million Series A, another U.K. startup playing in the digital health app space has picked up funding. Babylon Health, which like PushDoctor, lets you have video consultations with a doctor (and a lot more), has raised a $25 million Series A round led by Investment AB Kinnevik, the Swedish listed investment fund. 

Other investors participating include Babylon¡¯s original backer Hoxton Ventures, and the founders of BXR Group. Richard Reed, Adam Balon and Jon Wright (co-founders of Innocent Drinks) also joined the round, as did Demis Hassabis and Mustafa Suleyman, founders of Deepmind, the AI group bought by Google for $500m, who were already advising the digital health startup. 

That two of Deepmind¡¯s founders contributed is noteworthy given what Babylon says it plans to use the additional capital for. It wants to add a significant AI component to its mobile app that will employ AI to help patients pre-screen health conditions before or if they choose to follow up with a text, phone or video consultation. That¡¯s eminently more scalable than relying solely on the 100 or so doctors Babylon currently employs to serve its users who pay a monthly subscription service or get access via their employer¡¯s healthcare provision. 

A few months back I was given a demo of Babylon¡¯s AI feature ? you basically talk to the app as it walks you through your symptoms ? but felt it was a little too early to write about the experience. AI is the promise that keeps on promising so it will be interesting to test out Babylon¡¯s offering once it¡¯s ready for a full commercial launch. No doubt the Deepmind connection will help with hiring, which is one area the startup plans to use its Series A funding. 

Meanwhile, Babylon is staying mum on the company¡¯s valuation. The FT, who appear to have jumped the gun on the funding announcement yesterday before it had technically closed, cites it ¡°in excess¡± of $100 million, though one source close to the company tells me it¡¯s significantly higher than that. 