Mark Zuckerberg and Wife Pledge 99% of Their Facebook Shares to Charity
Mark Zuckerberg, the co-founder and chief executive of Facebook, announced on Tuesday that he and his wife would give 99 percent of their Facebook shares ¡°during our lives¡±? holdings currently worth $45 billion ? to charitable purposes. 
The pledge was made in an open letter to their newborn daughter, Max, who was born a week ago. 
Mr. Zuckerberg and his wife, Dr. Priscilla Chan, said they were forming a new organization, the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative, to manage the money. ¡°Our initial areas of focus will be personalized learning, curing disease, connecting people and building strong communities,¡± they wrote. 
In a securities filing, Facebook said Mr. Zuckerberg planned ¡°to sell or gift no more than $1 billion of Facebook stock each year for the next three years.¡± He intends to retain his majority voting position in the company¡¯s stock for the foreseeable future. 
Earlier this week, Mr. Zuckerberg was one of the billionaires who signed on to the Breakthrough Energy Coalition, a group organized by the Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates to contribute toward a multibillion-dollar clean energy fund. The announcement coincided with a Paris summit meeting intended to forge a global accord to cut planet-warming emissions. 
Mr. Zuckerberg and Dr. Chan have recently made visible investments and gifts in several kindergarten-through-high-school education projects. 
In May, AltSchool, a private school start-up in San Francisco that develops personalized learning technologies, announced that it had raised $100 million from a group of investors, including a donor-advised fund financed by the Zuckerbergs at the Silicon Valley Community Foundation. 
In September, Facebook announced that it was working with Summit Public Schools, a charter school network, to develop an on online platform to help tailor education to the needs and interests of individual students. 
And in November, EducationSuperhighway, a nonprofit group that helps K-12 schools tap federal funds for high-speed classroom Internet connections, announced that the couple had agreed to donate $20 million to its work. 
Mark Zuckerberg,the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative,Silicon Vally Community Foundation,Facebook,Dr. Priscilla Chan,AltSchool,a private school,Summit Public Schools,nonprofit group,the Microsoft,Bill Gates,Mark,Zuckerberg,Priscilla,Chan,stock,fund,Bill,Gates,education,projects,Foundation,charitable purposes,newborn daughter,the Breakthrough Energy,the Breakthrough Energy Coalition