Donald Trump warning over UK relationship
US presidential hopeful Donald Trump has warned he may not have a "very good relationship" with David Cameron. 
He was responding to the prime minister who called Mr Trump "stupid, divisive and wrong" over his call for Muslims to be banned from the US. 
Mr Trump told ITV's Good Morning Britain that he will remember Mayor of London Sadiq Khan's "very nasty statements" that he was "ignorant". 
Mr Cameron and Mr Khan stand by their comments, their spokespeople said. 
On Mr Cameron's comments, Mr Trump said: "It looks like we're not going to have a very good relationship, who knows. 
"I hope to have a good relationship with him, but it sounds like he's not willing to address the problem either." 
Mr Khan, who is a Muslim, previously warned that Mr Trump's "ignorant" views of Islam "could make both our countries less safe". 
In response, Mr Trump said: "I am offended, he doesn't know me. They are vey rude statements. 
"I think it's ignorant of him to say that." 
Mr Trump, who is the presumptive nominee for the Republic Party after pushing out more than a dozen rivals during the US primary season to be a candidate in the race for the White House, reiterated that he backed the UK leaving the European Union. 
Unlike US President Barack Obama, Mr Trump said he did not think Brexit would harm the UK's trade position. 
"It wouldn't make any difference to me whether they were in the EU or not," he said. 
"They certainly wouldn't be back of the queue, that I can tell you." 
Scottish Conservative leader Ruth Davidson told ITV's Good Morning Britain that it "can't be good" if Mr Trump were to be elected as US president in November. 
"I'd agree with that. I have huge and infinite faith in the American people that he won't be," she said. 
Donald Trump,Donald,Trump,warning,UK relationship,UK,relationship,US presidentail,David Cameron,David,Cameron,the prime minister,prime minister,Good Morning Britian,Mayor of London Sadiq Khan,Mayor,very nasty statements,nasy statements,Mr Khan,Khan,Muslim,Mr Trump,US President Barak Obama,President Barak Obama,Barak Obama,Brexit,UK s trade position,trade position,US president